>> Josh Long: I wanted to save
the best for last, right?
This is a Frontend Master's course,
it's awesome.
And right now the front end
is changing a lot, right?
It's a little hyperbolic today, but
I don't think we can argue with the idea
that a lot of things are going
to be done through a model,
an AI model of some sort
in the near future, right?
Maybe not tomorrow, maybe not next year,
but for some use cases today and for
a lot of use cases, maybe next year,
maybe 10 years from now, whatever.
The model is becoming the new
user interface, right?
The client, the chat client is
becoming the new user interface and
we're seeing this, you know,
this sort of utility balloon, right?
It's not great.
AI as we know it today is not great for
everything, obviously, but
there's no doubt it has
some good use cases.
And so I think we in the Java community
are well positioned to take advantage of
this moment in time.
Right now most of what people talk about
when they talk about AI engineering is
just integrating,
it's calling a REST API, right?
This is not hard.
Most of us are not going to
be building a model in AI.
That's not what most people are doing
when they talk about AI engineering.
They're not building their own models
in the same way that most people aren't
building their own SQL databases either.
They're using one that's been pre
built and stabilized and expanded and
grown and all that.
So if that's the name of the game and
if the integration protocol du jour is
HTTP for most of these models,
then there's no reason to be afraid.
This is a really easy problem to solve,
right?
AI is here, it's easy to use,
it's easy to integrate,
and arguably there is no better place to
integrate it than your Java code, right?
Because where's most of the business
logic in most organizations at any size
written in these days?
I'll give you a hint.
It's not Python, it's Java, right?
Look at the enterprise, that's Java.
The data scientists, sure,
they're using Python.
That's not where your business logic is,
that's not what's driving the scale
on your services and your systems.
So what we wanna do is to make your
business logic and the data that
business logic guards available to
the models to see if that can help.
And so,
we created this project called Spring AI.
So what we're gonna do is
we're gonna build, we're gonna
revisit our old friend Prancer and answer
the question, how did we find him, right?
How did we learn about Prancer?
How did we, like, I want to actually go
through the motions of adopting that dog.
We know how to do the adoption.
We know actually how to update the
adoption table, right, with that field.
But we only knew about Prancer
because I saw this thing on the news.
This dog was so hilariously described in
that advert that somebody put it out there
and it went on the news.
That's how I found out about Prancer.
That's not how one imagines, at least most
people discover the dogs of their dreams,
or in my case, nightmares, right?
They go to the shelter,
they have a conversation.
There's a whole process.
There's paperwork, there's formality,
all that kind of stuff.
So what I want to do is to build an
assistant to help people adopt dogs from
our fictitious dog adoption
agency called Pooch Palace.
Okay, so
that's what we're going to do today.
That's our purview, that's our mandate.
So we're going to go here, desktop talk.
Okay.
Init database.
Okay, I'm goinna make sure I
have the dog database there.
And we're going to go back here and
we're going to build a brand new project,
GraalVM.
We're gonna use the web support.
We're going to use OpenAI.
Now I'm using OpenAI.
You can use whatever you want.
You can use Ollama.
Ollama runs locally.
It's like Docker for models.
Okay.
It's a container.
Actually, Facebook started this all,
right?
OpenAI is a proprietary hosted
software as a service AI model.
But Facebook released a open source
AI model called Llama that was so
popular that it kind of,
because of that, they standardized,
they sort of extracted out the C
bindings required to run it, and
that became a container
program called Ollama, right?
And you can use Ollama to
then run any other model.
There's thousands of models that
you can run via Ollama, okay?
And I think Docker sort of
feeling a little left out.
They just recently announced a feature
here called Docker Model Run.
So Docker Model Runner.
And we just announced this.
We just announced support for
this in Spring AI M7 in,
I don't know, what is it now?
14 days ago, 13 days ago,
not even two weeks ago.
Okay, so this just came out a few weeks
ago in Docker and we have support for
it already in Spring AI.
So you can use Docker to
run models now as well.
That's why I didn't ask you
to install Ollama, right?
You can use Docker if you want, right.
There's infinite variety there.
And this is something that's kind of
different from the other that I use
the metaphor that it's sort
of like a data source, but
it's actually a little different in
that it's not unreasonable to have more
than one model in the same application.
Whereas if somebody had more than one,
if you have like two postgres in your
application, that might be a smell, right?
If you saw a program that had five
different databases, I might wonder
if that's maybe a little overwhelmed,
a little overstuffed, you know.
But in the model scenario, it's not
uncommon to have more than one model.
Okay.
And you can think of,
just imagine the efficiencies,
imagine the size differences.
Some models are very sophisticated,
they can do anything.
Some like Ollama, I'm telling you, with
Ollama you could do darn near anything.
It is quite good, right?
Google, they have one called Gemma,
which is like a lightweight
one that you can run locally.
These are small models that are really,
really fast and really, really good.
And they can do,
they can write poetry in five different
languages in the same request.
They can tell you about history,
they can do all sorts of things, right,
Just like you'd ask from ChatGPT or
OpenAI.
Some models, however, are much more terse.
They're lightning fast,
don't hesitate, not at all.
But also they are, maybe they only speak
a subset of English or one language and
they don't have a full grasp of history or
whatever.
You know, they,
they can't write code because they
don't know anything about code.
They're optimized for certain use cases.
So it's not unreasonable to have an
application that uses maybe a fast model
to do quick hot path analysis and then
forward the request onwards down to a more
full featured, full fledged model
as well for final analysis.
So I'm not gonna do that.
But my point is you have a lot of
options when you use Spring AI.
We support literally dozens
of different models.
And by the way,
some models we don't even OpenAI.
Kind of like with S3.
You know how there's like 500 different
services that are S3 compatible, so
it's not Amazon that hosts it,
but they speak the same protocol.
The same has kind of become the case for
OpenAI.
There are dozens of different
models from all over the world in
different countries and
all that stuff that are OpenAI compatible.
That is to say, if you speak
the OpenAI wire protocol, the REST API,
then you can talk to their model
even though it's not OpenAI.
Okay, so we're going to use OpenAI.
I've got that in the class path here.
We're gonna bring in Postgres, right?
We got a Postgres driver.
We're going to bring in.
Not Postgres, we're going to bring
in PG Vector, actually, okay?
PG Vector is Postgres,
plus some extra stuff, okay?
And I think that's pretty good.
That seem right?
That seems like it's okay.
Okay, good.
So we got PGvector.
What else?
We want the MCP client support, okay?
We'll talk about what that
is in a second as well.
And I think I'm pretty happy there.
We're gonna call this adoptions.
Okay, hit Enter, go here.
There's my database full of doggos.
UAO adoptions, zip.
Now we're going to build a application
that talks to that SQL database.
So same as always, same setup here.
Secret username, my user URL,
jdbc, postgres, QL localhost,
my database adoptions application.
And we're going to build
a simple controller here.
Just an assistant to help
people adopt their dogs,
to answer questions about dogs, okay?
For this fictitious dog adoption
agency called Pooch Palace.
So we can imagine having a username maybe.
Maybe if I had set up OAUTH or
some sort of security context,
I could just infer that from the current
authenticated user, the principal.
But I did not because I'm bad as a person,
okay?
And inquire.
Right.
And then this will be a request parameter.
Param, there you go, or param.
Good.
And I'm going to now inject
private final chat client.
Okay.
The chat client is my interface,
just like the REST client,
the JDBC client, the web client.
You've seen a bunch of clients so far.
The chat client is my
interface to talk to a model.
What model?
Well, like I said,
I'm going to use OpenAI.
How did I connect to OpenAI?
I have an API key, Right?
I've specified that.
And there's a lot of other prop.
Like if you're Talking to actually OpenAI,
that's usually enough.
You specify the API key.
I already did this though,
before I got on stage, my friends,
I exported an environment variable and
then that's running in my shell, right?
So just trust me that it's done and
forgive me for
not leaking my API credential, okay?
You just need to remember to
do that when you log in, okay?
And for most, if you're using
actual OpenAI, that's enough.
But a lot of times you might
be using something else.
So notice that we have base URL for
these different OpenAI modules, right?
Which brings us to another good point.
What does a model provide, right?
I'm assuming we're talking about chat,
right?
So there is the chat client, right?
The chat client is a easy
way to talk to a chat model.
Okay, here's your chat model.
But there's also transcription, right?
Models.
There's also embedding models, right?
There's all sorts of stuff.
There's all sorts of different
models that you can use.
And so we're going to use the chat model.
And not all models provide all
those different interfaces, right?
Like, embedding is orthogonal to chats.
You don't need to do both to
be an effective model, right?
You can do just chat and you can
delegate embedding to something else.
So one of the things you have to remember
when you use ollama is you might also use
different ollama models for
different purposes.
One for chat, one for embeddings.
We'll talk about what
embeddings are in a bit.
But so
OpenAI just happens to have everything.
It has the ability to do all those things.
When you auto configure an OpenAI starter,
when you use that starter,
it auto configures the embedding model,
the transcription model, the image model,
the chat model, et cetera, okay?
So I'm going to build a chat client.
This chat client builder already has a
pointer to the one already auto configured
chat model.
So I'm gonna use that chat client.
By the way,
this chat client is really good code.
I think the people that wrote
this code are the best,
the best in the business, okay?
Surely they are, and I think you
will benefit from using it as well.
Now, moving on,
we're going to make a request here, okay?
So I'm going to say,
return this AI prompt.
When you make a prompt,
you're asking again.
Just please remember this.
Everything I'm showing you here
is just a fluid type safe DSL
on the almighty string concat operator.
All interoperability, all integration.
That's just sending strings to
an AI model's HTTP endpoint.
This is not special.
Don't, don't get it twisted.
This is a pretty straightforward stuff.
So what are you gonna send?
Well, in the body of that request,
you can send a user prompt
that's just A regular question.
And I happen to have a question.
Great.
I can also send a system prompt.
We're going to do that in a bit,
but not right now.
I'm going to ask for
the content that comes back as a string.
There's the string right there.
Let's go ahead and restart this now.
HTTP:8080 in jlong inquire question==.
And I'm going to do a post
question equals my name.
This is not actually a question,
I guess, but whatever it is, Josh,
let's see if that works.
Okay.
Nice to meet you, Josh.
How can I assist you today?
Faboo, it knows me, right?
We're best buddies now already.
Let's just.
Let's just put that to the test though,
right?
What's my name?
In shambles, it's horrible.
I have that effect on people, though.
It's not.
It's not the first time.
It just still hurts.
It's already forgotten me, okay?
I just talked to it a second ago and
it's already forgotten who I am.
It says, I'm sorry, but
I don't know your name.
If you'd like to share it, feel free.
Curse you.
OpenAI.
It doesn't know.
And this is very different from
the experience that a lot of people
are accustomed to when they go to ChatGPT.
Right?
And
the browser ChatGPT is a chat
client that talks to an.
An API model.
A model that has an API,
that chat client keeps memory.
It has session, right?
It has state.
It's durable.
But the API itself doesn't.
It's like Dory the Goldfish
from Finding Nemo, right?